# View source for Age 101

You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:

The action you have requested is limited to users in the group: Trusted.

---

You can view and copy the source of this page.

{{Infobox\_Age
|name= Crusades
|number= 101
|status= Ended
|owner= [[Muga Gaming]]
|start= Sunday, April 23, 2023 @ 18:00 GMT
|end=
|duration=
}}
= Crusades =
Original details can be found in the forums here: [[http://forums.utopia-game.com/showthread.php?640333-Age-101-Final-Changes 101 Final Changes]]
=== Mechanical Changes ===
\*All provinces will start with 100 Thieves and 100 Wizards.
\*RKNW protection factor will now also apply to Defensive Military Casualties (of the smaller Kingdom), and the same scaling factor will apply as a penalty to Offensive Military Casualties (of the bigger Kingdom).
\*Meter Throttle mechanic removed.
\*Defensive Force-Ceasefire reintroduced. Only available out of War Range with no penalties, available after 3 Ticks of no Attacks, 96 Ticks duration.
\*War Win Land transfer reduced from 10% to 5%. Bonus Land will now be awarded to the winner, equal to 5% of the winner’s size (before transfer).
\*Base Honor generated on War Win increased by 50%.
\*War Wins will now award additional Honor (10% bonus to the generated amount per Tier difference) to Kingdoms that win against opponents with a Tier equal or greater than their own (before transfer).
=== [[Science]] ===
\*Finesse effect scaling greatly improved, now equal to Alchemy scaling.
===[[Military]]===
\*Base War Horse strength reduced to 2.
=== [[Ritual|Rituals]] ===
::'''Rituals'''
\*Barrier: -20% Damage from Enemy Instant Magic & Thievery Operations
\*Expedient: -25% Training Time, -25% Construction Time, +20% Draft Rate
\*Godspeed: -10% Attack Time, +10% Combat Gains
\*Havoc: +15% Offensive WPA, +15% Offensive TPA, +10% Instant Spell Damage, +10% Sabotage Damage
\*Onslaught: +10% Offensive Military Efficiency, +15% Enemy Military Casualties on Attacks
\*Stalwart: +10% Defensive Military Efficiency, -15% Defensive Military Casualties
=== [[Mystics|Spells]] ===
Fanaticism is no longer a Support Spell.
War Spoils removed.
::'''Support Spells'''
\*Minor Protection
\*Greater Protection
\*Fertile Lands
\*Magic Shield
\*Natures Blessing
\*Love and Peace
\*Builders Boon
\*Inspire Army
\*Patriotism
\*Wrathful Smite
\*Mist
\*Divine Shield
\*Illuminate Shadows
\*Salvation
=== [[Thievery|Operations]] ===
\*New Sabotage Operation: Destabilize Guilds – Decreases the target’s Duration of Self Spell and Offensive Spell casts while the effect is active by 20%. Medium difficulty, maximum duration roughly 6 Ticks. Only available to Rogue.
\*Sabotage Wizards – will now have a similar effect to Expose Thieves (will reduce Mana each tick by 5% of current Mana level, before regeneration), maximum duration roughly 9 Ticks.
{{ages}}

Templates used on this page:

- [Template:Ages](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Template:Ages "Template:Ages") ([view source](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Template:Ages&action=edit "Template:Ages"))
- [Template:Infobox Age](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Template:Infobox_Age "Template:Infobox Age") ([view source](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Template:Infobox_Age&action=edit "Template:Infobox Age"))
- [Template:•](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Template:%E2%80%A2 "Template:•") ([view source](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Template:%E2%80%A2&action=edit "Template:•"))

Return to [Age 101](/web/20250120232624//index.php?title=Age_101 "Age 101").
